All right so in the last video we went ahead and set up our core template core theme with an index header
and footer file.
And we also implemented the main post loop but we don't have anything else.
We just have the title.
We need to fix that.
But before we do that I want to make it so that we can actually add images to our post because right
now if we don't we try to add a new post.
We don't have a featured image area so we're going to have to create a function's dot ph P file.
All right.
And for now I'm just going to close all these out.
OK so let's say new file and call it functions
Daut HP.
And we're going to create Let's create a function and we're going to call it theme set up
with ad
featured image support.
So I'll say add underscore theme underscore support and we want to post the thumbnails
and then underneath the function declaration we're going to say add action
and then and here we want to pass in the hook that we want which is going to be after set up theme.
Okay.
And then the function that we want to use is theme's set up.
All right let's save that.
And now if we go in reload now you can see we have a featured image area.
So let's create a couple of categories first before we add a post.
Let's say technology
let's say food
entertainment
business OK.
I only want technology.
OK so for the title we'll just say blog post one and I'm going to grab some text from larm of some pace
that in.
And then we need to select a featured image so I'm going to choose.
You should have these in your in your program files project files.
But I'm going to choose this image of the Microsoft Surface and set feature that image and publish.
OK if we go back and we reload you can see that it is seeing that post but it doesn't look too good
.
All right so let's add one more I'll say add new Subi blog post to paste and text in lets choose food
for a category and then upload an image.
We're going to choose the burger image
and publish.
All right so now we have a couple of posts to work with and we have kind of an issue here because we're
putting the image in its own column inside of the post and some posts aren't going to have images.
For instance the hello world post does not have an image so we need to have some kind of conditional
where we'll say if this post has an image then whatever format it a certain way and then we'll do one
else and if it doesn't have an image we'll formatted a certain way.
So let's go into our index file and we're going to make this a little bigger.
OK so we have our loop here we have a row we just indent this a little.
All right so what we'll do is right after the first use me right after the row div is where we're going
to check to see if there is an image.
So we'll say ph P if it has a post thumbnail
down here
will say ph P else.
They're let's do ph P and F K so if there is a thumbnail then it's going to show this which is a three
column and a 9 column but if there is no thumbnail then we want it to be a full 12 column.
OK.
So turn that to 12.
Get rid of that.
So start with posts that have the thumbnail I'm going to get rid of this text.
And what we'll do here is create a div with a class of post.
OK.
And here we can say the post thumb.
All right so let's take a look at that so far.
OK so it's showing the images there in Simi big but that's all right.
The functionality is there.
You only want to do is I'm going to wrap the post in an article tag.
We're going to go right inside the while loop.
It'll say article and we're going to give it a class of toast
and we want to end that down here.
OK.
And now we'll go into our style CSSA folder our file in the let's say Article Daut host image and when
to set the width
to 100 percent OK it's going to be 100 percent of its container.
We're also going to set the height to auto in let's do margin top 30 pixels.
OK so that looks much better.
Now let's go back to index and back to we want to go right here where we have this title.
Now we want the title to be a link.
All right so let's go right here and let's put it in a tag K and then that's going to go to.
We want to echo the permalink.
Right.
And that should be a link to that to that post
.
Right.
Now under the age 2 we're going to put our meta data so we'll put this in a paragraph will give a class
of matter.
And so let's see
let's say posted at and then we can get the time by using p p the time
we'll say on and then we'll do the date
.
Let's say by open up some strong tags
in here we want the the author's name.
Excuse me.
So say ph P the author.
And that should be a function.
So let's make sure that's working which it is Cagan see it's telling us the time of the date and also
the author.
And this is a link if I click on it takes us to that page or that post.
Now what we want is the excerpt of the content but not all of it we're going to use excerpts instead
of content because that will give us it'll truncate it.
All right so let's go
we want to still be in the 9:00 column divs or the rendered under this paragraph and let's say div.
Class
excerpt.
And then let's do ph p.
Go get the X sir.
OK let's see if that works right.
It looks good.
Now we will also want to read more button.
So we're going to go right under that let's say a class or use bootstrap class PTEN and then DTN default
.
Let's see if we can set that to the permalink
Right.
And then for the text say three more and for the arrow symbol we can use ampersand.
Ari.
Q You o semi-colon.
All right so let's take a look at that.
And there we go.
Let's put a line break right above it all.
So now we want to do is take care of the posts that don't have an image.
OK right now the hello world post doesn't and it's not showing up because we haven't put any any code
in that yet.
All right so let's go.
Where is it we're checking for the thumbnail here.
And we say owls.
And then this.
This is where the code for the post without an image will go so what we'll do here is let's put the
title.
So I'm going to grab this
copy
and then we want.
Actually we'll just copy the rest of it.
So the Medek the metaclass here the X server and the button or the link.
So copy that and put that right under the title.
All right let's see what that gives us.
All right.
So now we can have post without images and not have just an empty space.
All right if we didn't do the conditional then this would just have an empty space where the image was
supposed to go.
OK now I want to add a little bit of CSSA to make this look a little better.
So let's go to style C Ss ants Let's see let's do article dot posts.
And I want to put a border on the bottom of each post so this will be gray solid and one pixel right
.
And let's add some padding padding bottom 20 and margin bottom 30.
OK but the last one the last article or post we don't want to have a border.
So what we can do is say Article door post and then use last child to target that last one and we'll
set the border for them to none.
So the meta data or I also want to have a little bit of style so see article dot Post dot matter.
And we're going to give it a background.
This will give the background a very light right.
And let's see we're also going to have to add a little padding.
People say 8 pixels by 12 pixels.
And let's say color will make it a dark gray.
So save that and reload.
And now that looks a little better.
So we're going to go ahead and stop here and in the next video I want to get the nav bar set up with
the custom Walker class.
All right so we'll get into that next.